the 17-year cicadas are special cicada
those cicadas emerge as adults all at
the same time every every 17 years that
have red eyes and their bodies are
orange the male cicadas they do that
buzz like singing to attract females for
mating once they mate the female cicada
lays her eggs on the twig of a tree
those eggs will hatch into aunt like
nymphs and about 8 to 10 weeks from
there they drop into the ground and they
burrow about 6 to 18 inches into the
ground and they stay there feeding on
the SAP of plant roots for 17 years so
mature trees are well adapted to the
damage that cicadas cause now newly
planted trees they have a lot of small
branches that the female cicadas like to
lay their eggs on because of this a lot
of those branches could die that damage
is called flagging that's when you have
a lot of little dead branches in the
canopy to protect your trees from the
damage what you can do is put fine
netting over the tree to prevent cicadas
from getting inside cicadas are a
wonderful source of food for a lot of
wildlife snakes and spiders squirrels
raccoons and they're very easy source of
prey because they have no defenses they
don't sting they don't bite that they're
not poisonous generally pets are fine to
eat some cicadas if they eat to money
then they may have a hard time digesting
the cicadas and you may have to take
them to your veterinarian the 17-year
cicadas they're emergencies have been
mapped out and they are broken up into
different regions or broods this year's
is a brood too though it won't be seeing
them everywhere so though their
appearance will be spotty through the
county